# What is Holochain's consensus algorithm?

> Holochains don't manage consensus, at least not about some absolute perspective on data or sequence of events. They manage distributed data integrity. Holochains do rely on consensus about the validation rules (DNA) which define that integrity, but so does every blockchain or blockchain alternative (e.g. Bitcoin Core). If you have different validation rules, you're not on the same chain. These validation rules establish the "data physics," and then applications are built on that foundation.

In making Holochain, our goal is to keep it "as simple as possible, but no simpler" for providing data integrity for fully distributed applications. As we understand it, information integrity does not require consensus about an absolute order of events. You know how we know? Because the real world works this way—meaning, the physically distributed systems outside of computers. Atoms, molecules, cells, bodies each maintain the integrity of their individual and collective state just fine without consensus on a global ledger.

Not only is there no consensus about an absolute order of events, but if you understand the General Theory of Relativity, then you'll understand there is in fact no real sequence of events, only sequences relative to a particular vantage point.

That's how holochains are implemented. Each source chain for each person/agent/participant in a Holochain preserves the immutable data integrity and order of events of that agent's actions from their vantage point. As data is published from a source chain to the validating DHT, then other agents sign their validation, per the shared "physics" encoded into the DNA of that Holochain.

The minor exception to the singular vantage point of each chain, is the case when a multi-party transaction is signed to each party's chain. That is an act of consensus -- but consensus on a very small scale -- just between the parties involved in the transaction. Each party signs the exact same transaction to with links to each of their previous chain entries. Luckily, it's pretty easy to reach consensus between 2 or 3 parties. In fact, that is already why they're doing a transaction together, because they all agree to it.

Holochains do sign every change of data and timestamp (without a universal time synchronization solution), This provides ample foundation for most applications which need solid data integrity for shared data in a fully distributed multi-agent system. Surely, there will be people who will build consensus algorithms on top of foundation (maybe like rounds, witnesses, supermajorities of Swirld),

However, if your system is designed around data having one absolute true state, not one which is dynamic and varied based on vantage point, we would suggest you rethink your design. So far, for every problem space where people thought they needed an absolute sequence of events or global consensus, we have been able to map an alternate approach without those requirements. Also, we already know this is how the world outside of computers works, so to design your system to require (or construct) an artificial reality is probably setting yourself up for failure, or at the very least for massive amounts of unnecessary computation, communication, and fragility within your system.

