app_spec/README.md, before:

# Holochain app specification in Rust

[![Project](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-holochain-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://holochain.org/)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-chat%2eholochain%2enet-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://chat.holochain.net)

This directory contains a Holochain app that functions as a living specification of Holochain and its Rust [HDK](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/tree/develop/hdk-rust) (Holochain Development Toolkit).

Please see the [Contribute section](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/blob/develop/README.md#app-spec-driven-development) for our protocol on how we do this, and also see the [core dev setup guide](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/blob/develop/doc/CoreDevSetup.md), which details how to set up a development environment (`nix-shell` is recommended), run tests (e.g. all tests with `hc test`), etc.

### Detailed Description of testing process

In order to get from the source directory tree to a Holochain DNA package, and then test that, several steps need to be taken which are all automated.

This includes compiling any Rust code projects to WASM, and then assembling a DNA file (.dna.json) with all configuration snippets and the WASM in it.

It will error at this point if for some reason it can't successfully build the WASM, or the DNA file.

Once this packaging is complete, there are a few more steps.

Unless they have already been installed, it will install node_modules to your `test` folder.

Finally, it uses `hc` to run those tests, giving you the feedback you really want to test code, and develop new functionality.

## Contribute
Holochain is an open source project.  We welcome all sorts of participation and are actively working on increasing surface area to accept it.  Please see our [contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for our general practices and protocols on participating in the community.

## License
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v3-blue.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)

Copyright (C) 2018, Holochain Foundation

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the license p
rovided in the LICENSE file (GPLv3).  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, bu
t WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 PURPOSE.

**Note:** We are considering other 'looser' licensing options (like MIT license) but at this stage are using GPL while we're getting the matter sorted out.  See [this article](https://medium.com/holochain/licensing-needs-for-truly-p2p-software-a3e0fa42be6c) for some of our thinking on licensing for distributed application frameworks.

Commit message:

Re-add Run the tests section

app_spec/README.md, after:

# Holochain app specification in Rust

[![Project](https://img.shields.io/badge/project-holochain-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://holochain.org/)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-chat%2eholochain%2enet-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://chat.holochain.net)

This directory contains a Holochain app that functions as a living specification of Holochain and its Rust [HDK](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/tree/develop/hdk-rust) (Holochain Development Toolkit).

Please see the [Contribute section](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/blob/develop/README.md#app-spec-driven-development) for our protocol on how we do this, and also see the [core dev setup guide](https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/blob/develop/doc/CoreDevSetup.md), which details how to set up a development environment (`nix-shell` is recommended), run tests (e.g. all tests with `hc test`), etc.

### Run the tests

Make sure that you fully completed the installation of dependencies. Then, within this directory run the following:

`./build_and_test.sh`

You should see the tests all passing successfully.

### Detailed Description of testing process

In order to get from the source directory tree to a Holochain DNA package, and then test that, several steps need to be taken which are all automated.

This includes compiling any Rust code projects to WASM, and then assembling a DNA file (.dna.json) with all configuration snippets and the WASM in it.

It will error at this point if for some reason it can't successfully build the WASM, or the DNA file.

Once this packaging is complete, there are a few more steps.

Unless they have already been installed, it will install node_modules to your `test` folder.

Finally, it uses `hc` to run those tests, giving you the feedback you really want to test code, and develop new functionality.

## Contribute
Holochain is an open source project.  We welcome all sorts of participation and are actively working on increasing surface area to accept it.  Please see our [contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for our general practices and protocols on participating in the community.

## License
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v3-blue.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)

Copyright (C) 2018, Holochain Foundation

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the license p
rovided in the LICENSE file (GPLv3).  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, bu
t WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 PURPOSE.

**Note:** We are considering other 'looser' licensing options (like MIT license) but at this stage are using GPL while we're getting the matter sorted out.  See [this article](https://medium.com/holochain/licensing-needs-for-truly-p2p-software-a3e0fa42be6c) for some of our thinking on licensing for distributed application frameworks.
